hello and welcome to this video my name
is Silvio Perez and in this video I'm
gonna be talking about what target CPA
bidding is so you can understand it and
not only understand it but be able to
implement it and then optimize it moving
forward so to get started go ahead and
hop into your Google Ads campaign tab
and click on the campaign you want to
set target CPA bidding for and once you
click on that campaign go down to
settings and then from there we're gonna
click on bidding and we're going to
click Change bid strategy click it again
and then in this drop-down menu we're
gonna see all the different automated
bid strategies and then the manual
strategy at the bottom so we're gonna
click on target CPA and then once we
have target CPA clicked on we can set
our target that we want to reach now
what is target CPA target CPA stands for
target cost per acquisition otherwise
known as target cost per action but
essentially it's the target result that
you are looking to reach so in the case
of target CPA you're gonna tell Google
hey Google I want to get leads in this
example for $50.00 and then Google is
going to use their machine learning to
set your bids automatically for you so
you don't have to worry about setting
bids Google is gonna go ahead and take
care of that and they're gonna set their
bids for you to make sure that you some
somewhere around 50 dollars you've
reached that target it can be about 20%
over or under depending on the account
and the amount of conversion volume you
have but usually around 20% under over
Google is going to reach that target
that you set so it might not be $50
maybe it's 60 or maybe it's 40 or
somewhere in between
but that's essentially what target CPA
bidding is you're gonna tell Google this
is my target I want you to go ahead and
take the rain set my bids and I don't
care what you set my bids as I just want
to make sure that I'm somewhere in the
ballpark of reaching this number this
goal and that's what target CPA bidding
does now there are some caveats of
target CPA bidding that you should be
aware of
first and foremost you cannot do target
CPA bidding if you do not have
conversion tracking enabled target CPA
bidding is all conversion focused so if
you don't have conversion tracking
enabled you need to go ahead and enable
first the second thing as well is even
though you might just enable conversion
tracking or you've had it in your
account for a while I don't recommend
doing target CPA bidding until your
account has enough conversion volume
enough conversion data google recommends
at least 15 conversions within the month
for your account before enabling this
type of bid strategy so really this type
of bid strategy works best when you have
enough information enough conversion
data that Google can leverage so that
they can make better decisions when it
comes to setting those bids for you
another thing that I've realized and
I've experienced in the past is if you
set target CPA bidding too soon or if
you set the target CPA limit too low so
let's say for example your average
cost-per-click
is $10 on average you spend about $10
every click and you set your target you
know CPA limit at $10 and you know on
average it's gonna cost you $10 a click
so then you know just mathematically
you're never gonna get a lead for $10
when it costs you an average $10 a click
unless you have like a hundred percent
conversion rate which is not reality
right so if you set your target CPA
limit to low what could happen is is you
end up suffocating your keywords and
your bid prices and Google is gonna set
your bids so low that your ads are never
gonna show so it's just something to be
mindful of don't set your target CPA to
low where your account gets suffocated
and then your ads are never getting seen
and then you know instead of getting
more conversions or at least conversions
out of decent cost you're not getting
anything
so that's something to be mindful of
that I've experienced in the past so
best practices try to set a target CPA
limit a little bit higher than what you
would like and that way you can give
Google enough room and then from there
this is the optimization phase how
you're gonna optimize your target CPA
bidding is once you set that limit see
how it goes see how it performs give it
some time see if Google is reaching your
target CPA if they're a lot higher or
under about 20% but just kind of see
what the results are and then from there
you can kind of taper down or taper up
depending on if you want to get more
conversions and your
now you're necessarily okay with
spending more and you want more volume
well then try testing raising your
target CPA limit maybe by five dollars
or $10 or a couple dollars up and then
see where you get enough conversion
volume now and the cost per lead or the
cost per acquisition isn't so much where
you're okay with that that's in the case
that you want more volume now the total
opposite of that is in the case that you
don't want as much volume but you want
less leads but more leads at the right
price for example so you're not
necessarily interested in getting more
leads but you want your okay taking less
leads but you want less leads at a great
price
so if that's in the case then you can do
the opposite and so instead of raising
your target CPA and seeing how that
works you're gonna lower it so maybe
lower by five or ten dollars or a couple
dollars within that and then see how
that performs and that's kind of how you
would go about optimizing this bid
strategy so this is kind of a hands-off
bid strategy Google's gonna do all the
heavy lifting for you they're gonna set
your keyword bids so from an experiment
basis you're gonna test experimenting
those different target CPA points
whether your goal is more conversions or
your goal is a reduced cost per lead
you're gonna go ahead and test either
increasing that target CPA or reducing
that target CPA all right so I want to
go ahead and show you an example of an
experiment that was run implementing
target CPA bidding and the results that
we're seen and a great way to by the way
if you're if you're using any other type
of bid strategy right now whether it's
manual maximize clicks or anything and
you're thinking about transitioning into
target CPA instead of just rolling out
that change right away into your account
I recommend doing a campaign experiment
first I mean if you're not familiar with
how to do a campaign experiment you can
go ahead and check out my video that I
created on how to create a campaign
experiment I'll put it in the show notes
in the description below and you can go
check that out but go ahead and make
sure you run a campaign experiment first
that way you can you can test safely if
the CPA bidding is actually going to
help you versus hurt you and I want to
show you a real example of an experiment
ran on target CPA bidding and the
results that were received so for
example with this with this experiment
the basically the results were 3350 cost
per conversion using target CPA bidding
is the original of 47 75 without target
CPA bidding and then with average
cost-per-click the original was about
$10.10 average cost-per-click and then
with target CPA bidding it was about
five dollars and fourteen cents cost per
click in the case of this experiment in
this account the trade-off between
conversion volume and cost per lead was
worth it you know we were worth we were
okay taking less conversions further for
a better price so I recommend if you are
interested in doing this go ahead and
run an experiment and see what the
results tell you so that's gonna be it
for this video if you got some value
from this please go ahead and make sure
to subscribe and follow along to the
channel I create content every week and
make sure to check out the description
for the link to that video on how to
create Google Ads campaign experiments
if you're not familiar with that so
that's it hope you have a good one see
you next time take care
[Music]